---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

+++ title = "Coral Reef Community Changes in Karimunjawa National Park,
Indonesia: Assessing the Efficacy of Management in the Face of Local and
Global Stressors" date = "2020-01-01" publication_types = \["2"\]
authors = \["Emma V. Kennedy", "Julie Vercelloni", "Benjamin P. Neal",
"Anbariyanto", "Dominic E. P. Bryant", "Anjani Ganase", "Patrick
Gartrell", "Kristen Brown", "Catherine J. S. Kim", "Mul'alimah Hudatwi",
"Abdul Hadi", "Agus Prabowo", "Puji Prihatinningsih", "Sutris Haryanta",
"Kathryn Markey", "Susannah Green", "Peter Dalton", "Sebastian
Lopez-Marcano", "Alberto Rodriguez-Ramirez", "Manuel González-Rivero",
"Ove Hoegh-Guldberg"\] publication = "In: Journal of Marine Science and
Engineering, (8), 760, *pp. 27*,
<https://doi.org/doi:10.3390/jmse8100760>" abstract = "Karimunjawa
National Park is one of Indonesia's oldest established marine parks.
Coral reefs across the park are being impacted by ﬁshing, tourism and
declining water quality (local stressors), as well as climate change
(global pressures). In this study, we apply a multivariate statistical
model to detailed benthic ecological datasets collected across
Karimunjawa's coral reefs, to explore drivers of community change at the
park level. Eighteen sites were surveyed in 2014 and 2018, before and
after the 2016 global mass coral bleaching event. Analyses revealed that
average coral cover declined slightly from 29.2 ± 0.12\\% (Standard
Deviation, SD) to 26.3 ± 0.10\\% SD, with bleaching driving declines in
most corals. Management zone was unrelated to coral decline, but shifts
from massive morphologies toward more complex foliose and branching
corals were apparent across all zones, reﬂecting a park-wide reduction
in damaging ﬁshing practises. A doubling of sponges and associated
declines in massive corals could not be related to bleaching, suggesting
another driver, likely declining water quality associated with tourism
and mariculture. Further investigation of this potentially emerging
threat is needed. Monitoring and management of water quality across
Karimunjawa may be critical to improving resilience of reef communities
to future coral bleaching." abstract_short = "" image_preview = ""
selected = false projects = \[\] tags = \[\] url_pdf = "" url_preprint =
"" url_code = "" url_dataset = "" url_project = "" url_slides = ""
url_video = "" url_poster = "" url_source = "" math = true highlight =
true \[header\] image = "" caption = "" +++
